Nøkkelord brukt for utvalg: advanced, mixing, techniques, dj

Put your new advanced skills to the test!
Put your new advanced skills to the test!
This article will educate you on cutting-edge DJ techniques, mixing a range of advanced concepts and skills. These will help you to level up your DJ mixing skills from the bedroom to the main stage.
DJing is a deep art form, and there are thousands of lessons and techniques to learn. I've spent over a decade blending so I've put this list together to share some of the most valuable DJ knowledge out there!
You might also be interested in this guide - Tips For A Good DJ Mix
Practice as many DJ mixing techniques as you can.
Push yourself out of your comfort zone to expand beyond basic mixing techniques.
Software like DJ.Studio provides a powerfully unique perspective on how to build DJ sets.
Check out these DJ chops to improve your sets and impress your audience. (Remember, you should also learn about these 7 Bad DJ Mixing Mistakes to Avoid!)
One of the most powerful advanced DJ mixing techniques is using key matching and harmonic mixing.
There are 24 potential keys - 12 minor, and 12 major. Each of these keys connects in a certain way, some of the keys have strong relationships, whereas others are weak. A vital component of seamless mixing is making sure the keys of two tracks are compatible - which is called harmonic mixing.
The easiest system for DJs to incorporate harmonic mixing is the Camelot Wheel. This wheel shows you the strongest connections to make for each type of key. All you need to do is work out what key one track is, and then you can see which other keys will match well.
You don't necessarily have to match tracks in strictly the same key, as each key connection offers a different type of energy or mood change. Understanding how you can manipulate this concept is one of the most valuable advanced DJ mixing techniques that will set you apart from other DJs.
Another important thing to understand is how to correctly manage gain levels. This is one technical aspect of mixing that DJs often overlook. Sure, it's not the most glamorous or exciting part of DJIng, but it goes a long way in making you sound professional, and not blowing out the speakers.
The key to good gain staging is to make sure the channel meters are showing the volume just below the red, this way you are maximizing volume without clipping the channel. If you need more volume, you should turn the gain up in another stage of your audio setup. If this is in a club, the PA and speaker rig need to have their volume boosted. If you are mixing at home, then you need to turn the up volume of your speakers, headphones, or amplifier.
This is more conceptual than a technical technique, but you should experiment with multi-genre mixing. So many DJs get stuck in labeling themself as "a techno DJ", or "a DnB DJ", and limiting themselves in what they play. Sure, sometimes a nightclub will want a specific genre set, but when you have more creative freedom then it's good to experiment with variety.
You'd be surprised at how easy it can be to mix completely random genres together, without even needing to use sophisticated techniques.
You should listen to as much music as you can, and create a large music collection that spans all genres. Don't limit yourself by only listening to and mixing a few genres. Push yourself to explore music outside your comfort zone, and try to listen to new genres that you've never heard of.
The wider your musical tastes are, the more flexibility you have to express yourself as a DJ. Mixing all different genres also makes your djing skills more versatile too, you can take things you learn from mixing house and incorporate them into mixing drum and bass or hip hop, etc.
See my full guide on this topic here: DJ Mixing Different Genres - The Ultimate Skill Guide
While most DJs only use two decks to mix, there's something to be said about using 3, or even 4 decks when mixing. Sure, juggling this amount of tracks takes work and a lot of practice, but it can make for a super slick performance if you pull it off.
Even if you don't end up performing with three of four decks, it's a good thing to practice because it makes you work harder and pushes you out of your comfort zone. When you get used to mixing with three or four decks, it makes you feel much more skilled and advanced when mixing on a standard two-deck setup.
Not all DJ software makes this possible, although if you have enough decks and a multi-channel mixer then you can pull it off.
You need to learn how to beat match. With today's technology, it's really easy to get stuck in a rut of relying on automatic tempo-matching tools. Sure, this is really helpful, and it makes it quick and easy to get tracks matched, although you shouldn't rely on it all the time if you want to DJ professionally.
Beat-matching isn't that hard once you've spent some time practicing the basics. Learn how to beat match, learn how to count beats, and learn how rhythms work. All of these skills feed into a DJ's ability to create fluid mixes. Beat-matching is at the core of Djing, so learning how to do it manually and properly is essential if you want to take it seriously.
You don't always need to match manually though. If you are working with DJ software like DJ.Studio - you have access to auto-matching features. This does the boring work for you so you can focus on the creative and expressive elements of your mix.
Mastering a seamless mix technique is a valuable skill, and can make for some super groovy listening and dancing. A lot of inexperienced DJs tend to mix tracks quite messily. This can be jarring for the audience, as they will hear too many musical elements clashing around.
When you listen to the best DJs, then can mix two tracks together and make it seem like one track, there are a few techniques to achieving this type of mix.
Next, you need to time the mix in a way that both kick drums and the arrangements aren't clashing. You need to carefully line up the intros and outros (sometimes called mix-in and mix-out zones). These parts of arrangements have fewer elements, and more space to be blended together with another track. This can be done by cueing one kick drum to the other - using DJ software or a DJ controller.
Then it's just a matter of mixing a smooth transition with the faders! If you pull off a seamlessly smooth mix, your DJ set will sound amazing!
Loop mixing is a powerful technique that has been made possible by digital technology. You can easily loop sections of a track into 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, or other bar-length phrases - ultimately it depends on the structure of the arrangement. Most DJ software has an auto loop feature which makes this easy.
If you loop sections of two different songs, you can get creative with volume, filters, and effects when playing live to create a real-time remix. Practicing this technique opens up a lot of options. it's a great technique for mixing house music!
You can get even more creative with loops than just looping a 2 or more bar phrase. Depending on the capability of your DJ gear, you can create tiny loops. Start with a loop, and then keep shortening it until it gets to the smallest loop possible.
Depending on your gear, this could become a tone, almost like a synthesizer. You can then use this tone as an instrument, flicking the crossfader and channel faders, almost to create a rhythmic scratching effect. It's not scratching in the traditional sense, but works in a similar way and is a great technique for creating more dynamic DJ performances.
You should also learn How To Add Samples To DJ Mix
You can then take this tempo change further, speeding the garage up from 127 BPM to a driving 135. This brings it up to the speed of rolling industrial techno, which you can then slowly bring in. You can see how you can use this to go from DJing house music or tech house, and moving your DJ set up to higher tempos!
Get some specific techniques with these 9 DJ Tempo Change Techniques!
This is one of the more advanced DJ tips out there, but using a polyrhythmic mixing technique can create some really interesting and unique grooves. Typically, most rhythms in dance music and electronic music use a 4/4 beat. That means they are counted as 1 - 2 - 3 - 4.
It can take a while to get your head around, but it's one of those advanced techniques that will really set you apart from the crowd.
A core skill for any advanced DJ is to master all of the available tools and learn how to use and combine them effectively. There is a wide variety of effects and processes available to DJs beyond a standard channel volume fader.
I'd even recommend working out how you can combine these effects - this can open up some really cool options when it comes to mixing and making transitions.
Find out more - DJ Transition Techniques Every DJ Should Know!
Mixing arrangements cleanly and precisely is something that sets DJs apart from others. New DJs tend not to care so much about which point of a track they start crossing over.
This can result in clutter, overwhelming mixes where there are two hooks bashing against each other at the same time, too many kick drums, and even worse, two vocals clashing. For example, if you DJ house music, you want to make sure that the vocals and bass line for each track aren't competing with eachother. This goes for mixing music of any kind!
Consider the mix-in and mix-out zones for your tracks. Don't just cut them together at any random point. You should have a clear intention of when, and why you're going to transition between tracks. Even if you're mixing minimalistic genres like deep house music, you need to be careful.
This can all be achieved with phrasing - What Is Phrasing in DJ Mixing?
The crossfader and channel faders are both concerned with changing the volume of your tracks, however, they both do this in a different way, and you should maximize their nuances to your advantage when mixing.
Experiment with both fader types, and listen to how they both sound different and change the volume in their own way. Understanding these mixing techniques will give you a smoother mix every time.
Learn 5 DJ Crossfade Techniques - Mix Like A Pro
It's easy to get overexcited with the EQ boosts. We all love to slam the bass line with a fat boost to the subs, although this isn't always the best EQ mixing technique, and can make things harder later down the line.
Find out more: DJ Cue Points: The Ultimate Guide
This is something that many DJs fail to do in the early days. Listening back to your own mixes is highly important because it lets you hear things for how they really are.
When you're mixing live, you're so focussed on the mixing at the moment that you might not really hear how the set sounds to the audience.
You need to give yourself the perspective of being somebody in your own audience. Imagine you were just a dancer in the club, and you were watching your own DJ set.
This way you can get critical about your DJ style, and hear things that you need to improve on.
But if you play to a crowd, or regularly DJ in public or on a radio show, your sets will quickly become stale if you use the same mixes every time. Imagine listening to the same house music production a thousand times...
How To Record A DJ Mix: 3 Best Methods
When you get around to having some mixing practice time, make a list of certain things and techniques you want to practice.
It's good to mix randomly and for fun, but you will progress your skills quicker if you dedicate your practice to particular techniques.
Spend 15 minutes experimenting with the faders on my DJ controller
Scratching is one of those DJ skills that everyone wishes they were masters of. Using scratching is a great way to bring an extra level of performance and expression to a dynamic performance.
Scratching is an art form in itself, and some DJs dedicate themselves to building next-level scratching techniques. You don't have to become a scratch artist, but learn how you can incorporate scratching into your performances.
This fast-paced challenge will increase your speed on the decks. Set yourself a goal of making a mix where you change tracks every minute. Doing this will keep you on your toes, and level up your mixing skills by pushing you to be fast.
While some snobby people in the music scene would argue differently, DJs are actually musicians, so learning music theory can be a big help.
Music theory is a deep field, and while it isn't necessary for DJs to learn it, it can be helpful, as having a deeper understanding and connecting with music opens your mind.
Research things like melody, harmony, chords, keys, and rhythm. If you understand these concepts you will find mixing easier, and you'll be able to get more creative with it.
Everyone loves mixing, but (and I know this personally) nobody likes to end their set. Most DJs just want to mix for hours on end, especially if they have an audience and are in the groove.
Working out a way to end your sets in style brings a nice touch to your performances. If you're being followed by another DJ, why not cue a track that suits their style so they can easily drop in the next track?
If you incorporate these DJ tips and tricks into your DJ set then you'll sound like a pro in no time. Remember, using software like DJ.Studio can be a great way to practice these tips and refine your mix techniques. Being a non-linear DJ tool, it gives you a unique perspective on how to craft DJ sets.
Check out this Interview with DJ.Studio's Inventor for our origin story!
DJs transition between songs using a range of tools. To make a seamless mix between the outgoing track and an incoming track, a DJ first needs to beat match the tracks to the same tempo.
Several factors make a DJ stand out.
First of all, track selection. Playing cool, unique, and exciting tunes will give you an advantage over DJs who play stale old beats that nobody wants to hear.
Secondly, technique. An excellent DJ will mix tracks seamlessly, and develop their own unique mixing style.
There are three pillars to great DJ mixes.
Finally, the DJ needs to seamlessly mix the tracks together to create a smooth and continuous set.
The DJ Mix. Redefined
Copyright © 2024 DJ.Studio B.V. All rights reserved.
