Nøkkelord brukt for utvalg: master, mixing, dj, track

Mashup Armada Music tracks and win great prizes
Master your mixes instantly in DJ.Studio!
Master your mixes instantly in DJ.Studio!
Mastering is seen as somewhat of a secret skill in the DJ and music production community. This final stage of audio processing is both a science and an art, but it's an important process if you want your mix to compete and sound professional.
There are several reasons for mastering a DJ mix, including maximising the volume, ensuring the levels are consistent, and getting a final quality control check to iron out any mistakes.
You'll need to use a few tools in the mastering process, including a compressor, limiter, and equalizer - all of which can be found in most audio software.
This guide explains exactly how to master your DJ mixes (even if you're a total beginner), and demonstrates why this stage shouldn't be overlooked.
By the end of this guide, you will understand the vital benefits of mastering, and be able to start mastering your mixes yourself to reap the rewards!
Mastering is the final stage of processing applied to an audio file.
It's important to master your DJ mixes to give them a consistent volume and compete with other mixes.
Compression, limiting, and equalization are the most common processes involved with mastering.
DJ.Studio helps you to easily master your DJ mixes and check the final output.
Mastering refers to the final stage of processing applied to a recorded audio file. This originates from music production, where the final mastering stage is applied after the mixdown, however, any form of recorded audio is mastered, including TV and radio, movies, and in our case, DJ mixes.
The main purpose of mastering is to set the final dynamic range, tone, and volume level of the audio file.
To understand mastering, you need to understand the sub-components, so here are the terms you need to understand:
Dynamic Range - Describes the distance between the loudest and quietest part of an audio file. Dynamic tracks have a larger distance between loud and quiet sections, which can create a punchier and more variable listening experience. Low dynamic range tracks are more compressed and have more consistency, but less impact.
The mastering process is often overlooked by amateur DJs. However, the effect of mastering is not to be underestimated - this is an essential stage if you want your mixes to stand out and compete.
Here are some of the main reasons why you should master your DJ sets:
One of the most important reasons for mastering is to ensure volume levels are consistent across tracks, so all the songs sound at a similar volume.
When you're mixing, in the moment it's easy to lose perspective on the volume levels from track to track. This might mean that in your recording, some tracks are far louder or quieter than others. This can create an inconsistent listening experience, where the listener is constantly having to reach for the volume control - which is something you want to avoid.
Mastering helps to smooth out any volume level inconsistencies in a recorded mix, ensuring that your DJ set offers the best listening experience.
Another more technical reason for mastering is to ensure the mix meets the requirements of the distribution format or platform.
Your mix needs to be mastered to the correct volume for wherever it is being sent.
Another reason for mastering a mix is to take advantage of every last drop of potential volume.
Talking of competing with other mixes, this is another vital reason to master your entire mix.
This is still something that you should consider when making a mix. While it doesn't have to be strictly volume-related, mastering gives you a chance to make the sound quality of your mix compete with other mixes.
There are many elements of a mix that can be maximised through mastering - the overall quality (fixing any mistakes) the frequency balance, making sure the lows, mids, and highs all sound good, and the stereo imaging - so that the mix sounds nice and wide on stereo speakers. You want your mix to stand up against others, and to have a professional quality.
Mastering can go a long way in improving the overall audio quality of your mix.
By using a combination of EQ, saturation, compression, stereo wideners, and a range of other mastering tools, you can really improve and refine the overall audio quality of your mix. This takes a bit of skill, but you can add an extra layer of 'niceness' to a mix that you can't achieve with a standard DJ mixer or DJ software.
You can also make the tone more cohesive throughout. Because most tracks that you mix will already have a different approach to audio mixing and mastering applied to each one, the sound will naturally be pretty different from track to track.
You can use mastering to make tracks sound more like they've been through the same process, creating a more seamless and immersive listening experience.
Even the most professional DJs are still prone to making tiny mistakes, or even glitches. Mastering gives you a chance to erase and correct any of these issues.
It could be a sudden jump in volume, a clunky mix, or a nasty noise caused by a bumped cable. Any mistakes can be fixed in the mastering process - which also gives you a final stage for checking the overall quality - you can think of it as quality control.
Mastering isn't just about the technical logistics, it's also another stage for your expression and uniqueness to shine through.
Mastering can be a colorful, artistic process, where you really get to further apply your signature sound to your mix.
There is a lot of room for expression in mastering (if you know your tools) so this really isn't to be overlooked as part of the creative expression of making a mix.
I actually love the mastering process, and find it to be an exciting stage of finishing my mixes and applying the final touch to my artistic vision as a DJ.
Here are some other shorter reasons why mastering a DJ mix is important.
Adaptation to various playback systems - Depending on where the mix is being played, you might want to change the master settings to suit the playback system better.
File Preparation - Mastering allows you to make all the various file formats you may need to distribute your mix, like HD WAV files, or compressed MP3s.
There are a few essential pieces of equipment you'll need to master a DJ mix. You might already have some of this if you have music production and DJ gear, but there might be a few extra things you need.
Mastering Audio Processors - You'll need access to a range of audio processing tools. Most DAWs come with a stock version of these, but often a 3rd party plugin can offer better results, and make your life easier. Here are the main tool processors you'll need:
Acoustically Treated Space - Probably the hardest thing to come by. Really you want to master your music in an acoustically treated environment, so you get the most accurate perception of how your mix sounds.
While mastering is often perceived to be an advanced technical skill, it's actually pretty easy if you follow some clear steps, and understand the tools at hand.
The following steps show you the basic mastering process. The process is fairly flexible too, but this is one of the best ways to start it. (You can even apply this to mastering your own music as a producer!)
Equalization - EQ is the process of setting the balance between the frequencies, typically the low, mids, and highs (and various subdivisions) there are two main types of EQ processing in the mastering phase
Corrective - Corrective EQing should be applied first, in order to remove any frequency-related issues in your mix. For example, some tracks might have a build-up of certain frequencies, or you may have excessively boosted the bass/highs in one part. You might need to automate the EQ to balance out the unwanted frequencies over time.
Mastering compression - Compressors are tools that let you set the dynamic range - you can either compress or expand your mix. Typically for mastering, a compressor is applied to even out the volume from track to track. For basic settings, I would suggest:
Dithering - This is an advanced topic (which I won't explain in full detail), but it helps to maximise the audio quality of your mixing. In essence, dithering applies a tiny amount of noise to your mix, which helps to smooth out the audio when you're downsampling the resolution (for example, from 24-bit to 16-bit, or HQ wav to a lower resolution MP3). You'll usually find an option for this in the export process of your audio software.
Final listen-through - Before exporting, have a final listen-through through the mix to make sure you're happy with your mastering. If not, go back and make some changes. It's often worth comparing it to another mix you like the sound of at this stage, and checking that it competes.
That's it! The process of mastering
Remember, critical listening is the foundation of a good mastering engineer. Listen closely, compare your work to other mixes, and make something that sounds nice in comparison.
Understanding the logistics and process of mastering is one thing, but you also need to look at it through an artist's lens. I like to think of mastering as the final layer of paint on the artistic vision of my mix. Here are some of the questions I ask myself when mastering a DJ mix...
How can I make my mix sound hold up against other DJs and the competition?
DJ.Studio is a unique new piece of DJ software which gives users a completely new way to make DJ mixes. This has a range of features which help you master your mix and also lets you take a slightly different and more versatile approach to mastering a mix.
I won't go into full detail about how to make a mix in DJ.Studio - I explain it in full detail here: How To Make A DJ Mix In DJ.Studio, or you can watch the video below.
In essence, DJ.Studio gives you a different way to make mixes. Rather than mixing live, in real-time with a controller or recording decks, instead, you create your mix on a DAW-style timeline.
There are several features in DJ.Studio that help you to master your mixes from directly within the software.
Track volume automation - You can automate the track volume controls (and independent gain) to make sure that the mix has a consistent volume from track to track. Because you aren't mixing in real time, you can make mixes with more objectivity, and make continuous updates and corrections to get the balance right.
Track compression - Each track in your library has a unique compressor control, which can be used for changing the track's dynamic range. This is useful if some tracks are more dynamic than others, as you can achieve a more cohesive dynamic range across your mix. Being a single knob control, it's quick and easy to dial in the perfect mount, even if you're not a technician.
Mastering controls and analysis - A compressor and limiter on the master bus can be used for setting the final overall dynamic range, as well as capping the output dB. There are also a few metering tools for getting an overview on your mix.
Now you're ready to make your mixes stand out and sound professional with the right mastering process. It can take a fair bit of practice to learn and understand mastering, but it's definitely worth looking into.
Start mastering with my steps above, and give DJ.Studio a try to see how you can use it to create and master mixes with a new approach.
While it isn't essential to master your DJ mixes, it is definitely worth doing and can make a large improvement to the overall quality of your mix. Mastering a DJ mix helps to increase consistency and cohesion - giving it a more competitive sound, and ensuring the quality and volume are maximized.
You don't need to be a pro audio engineer to master your DJ mix to a decent level, using tools like DJ.Studio
Mastering is the final stage of production for any type of audio recording - including a DJ mix. When a DJ mix is mastered, typically it will be compressed, EQed, saturated, and limited to finalize the sound quality. Any mistakes are also corrected, and the audio files are created in with the required specifications based on the distribution location.
You can compress DJ mixes, but it's not essential. Ultimately it depends on how consistent the volume levels are from track to track, and whether you need to control the dynamic range. I'll often compress mixes to make them a bit more consistent, so the listener doesn't have to reach for the volume control while they're listening.
The DJ Mix. Redefined
Copyright © 2024 DJ.Studio B.V. All rights reserved.
