Nøkkelord brukt for utvalg: mistakes, mixing, dj, avoid

Improve your mixing now!
Improve your mixing now!
DJing can be a tricky art form - and there are some techniques that clearly identify the beginners from the pros. To stand out from other DJs, you'll need to practice these methods!
If you want to impress (and keep) your audience, make sure you avoid as many common mistakes as possible. These can all be fixed with a bit of practice and training.
Study the following mistakes to keep your DJ career safe - then learn the relevant techniques and skills to prevent slipping up! All is explained below.
Check out these 23 Advanced DJ Mixing Techniques to Improve Your DJ Set too!
These DJ mistakes should be avoided at all costs!
Beatmatching, harmonic mixing, and phrasing are key to sounding good.
Keep your crowd happy with DJ.Studio's powerful tools!
These are the most common DJ mistakes. Learning these, and how to combat them, will ensure that your DJ sets sound professional and skilled.
DJ software like DJ.Studio can help you to overcome some of these mistakes, and take you from a bedroom to a club DJ.
Check out our Definitive DJ Dictionary if you don't understand any of the DJ terms I use!
One of the worst and most noticeable mistakes made by amateur DJs is not properly beat matching their mixes. Beat matching is one of the key pillars of mixing, and isn't too hard to learn - although many new DJs overlook it.
Beatmatching is the process of matching the tempos of two tracks together when mixing them and making sure the beats are aligned correctly and playing in time. This is achieved by changing the tempo of tracks using the pitch slider and starting them in time using the cue feature. Some software features a sync button which makes the process super easy.
DJ.Studio makes it super easy to beat match any song, and you don't even need to put much effort in as it's mostly done automatically.
Harmonic mixing is a more advanced DJ technique that is often neglected - even by many professional DJs. Although this can make a large improvement to your mixing, if ignored, it makes some awkward and uncomfortable mixes.
The harmonic mixing technique revolves around the concept of musical keys - make sure that each track you mix is harmonically compatible with the next, by using a closely related key.
Harmonic mixing can be pretty hard to get your head around if you don't know much about music theory, although our guides will help you understand it.
At the same time, if you take harmonic mixing into account, it creates much more seamless and slick-sounding mixes. You can even use it to your advantage to take control of the energy of your set by using the energy mixing table.
DJ.Studio makes harmonic mixing super easy and does all the calculations for you to make harmonic blends without any effort. it shows you the key of all your tracks and lets you know how well they match to others, It can also suggest and automatically arrange your tracks in a harmonically matched order.
One of the other most important elements of DJing is track selection. Even if you have the best technical skills, you can still ruin a mix by picking songs that don't go well together.
Bad track selection gives the impression that you haven't thought about your mix, or the groove, and will ruin the immersion and flow of your audience. It also shows that you haven't developed your own sound as a DJ.
By building a large library and understanding of music, you will be able to pick the right tracks. A great way to practice this is by using YouTube as your music library. This lets you experiment with any track, and find new music to include in your mixes. DJ.Studio lets you DJ with YouTube, so you can really practice with any songs you want!
Another sign of an unskilled DJ is aggressive speed-changing. Whether you're speeding up or slowing down, you should try to avoid making excessive changes, as this can ruin the groove. If you want to play two tracks with a large BPM difference, you should consider using a third tune to bridge the gap.
Transitions are a core part of exciting mixing, and pulling them off in a slick and engaging manner is key to making a fun DJ set.
Alternatively, you might make clunky and bad transitions, which can kill the mood and tell everyone you are an inexperienced DJ.
Like most things, mastering transitions is just a matter of practice, experience, and knowing your music. DJ.Studio makes the transition creation process a lot easier and helps to give you a new perspective on how they work. You can experiment with moving from one track to the next in a wide range of ways!
Check out our full guide on Exciting Transition Techniques! And make sure you know all about DJ Mixing Effects to add a bit of extra spice.
One of the most obvious signs of an inexperienced (or just rude) DJ is redlining - avoiding this is a golden rule. This is the term used to describe the distortion created when the volume output is set too high, and the signal is damaged.
Redlining is easy to avoid - if you pay attention to your volume meters and listen out for distortion. All you need to do is turn the volume down.
Phrasing is another cool DJ technique that sets professionals apart from beginners. In this technique, you take into account the phrasing and arrangements of tracks and use this to your advantage.
Check out our full guide on Phrase Mixing to see what I'm talking about! It's a lengthy topic.
If you avoid these mistakes, you're well on your way to becoming a good DJ. Just be patient, as a lot of these techniques can take a while to master, although now you are aware of them your journey has begun!
DJ.Studio is designed to help new DJs easily overcome these mistakes - even if they have no experience.
While it's great for beginners, it also has a deep level of customization, accuracy, and features - making also ideal for professional DJs at the top of their game.
Try it yourself with the free 14-day DJ.Studio Trial!
Make sure you look through our DJ Mixing Different Genres - The Ultimate Skill Guide for more mixing tips for a range of popular genres.
There are a number of reasons your DJ mixes sound bad - and you need to identify the problem to fix it.
The most common reasons DJ mixes sound bad are because:
You're not mixing harmonically
All of these problems can be fixed by learning the relevant techniques - which you can learn on our blog! Beginner DJs should make sure they understand all these concepts.
DJ mixes don't have to be perfect, as long as the music choice is good, and it's not an awful mix.
Obviously, if you want to make it anywhere as a serious or professional DJ, then you're going to want your mixes to be as close to perfect as possible, however, in some cases the odd dodgy mix is fine!
Fixing mistakes in a DJ mix can be a pain, especially if you've recorded the mix live on a DJ controller or DJ mixer.
The only way you can fix mistakes is by re-recording your set or editing your mix in a DAW.
Neither is great though. DJ.Studio is a powerful tool for creating DJ sets, without needing to worry about having to re-do anything when you make a mistake.
Because DJ.Studio works on a timeline, you can simply correct any issues - wherever they occur before you export the mix!
The DJ Mix. Redefined
Copyright © 2024 DJ.Studio B.V. All rights reserved.
