These controls are:Volume controls (gain) - Channel Faders, Cross FadersPitch/Tempo sliderEQCue and playJogging and scratchingEffectsVolume (Gain) - Channel Faders, Cross Faders#Volume, more correctly called gain, is one of the most important controls and also the easiest to understand.
 Pitch / Tempo Slider#The next core tool is the pitch/tempo slider (pitch and tempo are used interchangeably).
The tempo slider controls the playback speed of the music playing from the deck.
This is an important tool that lets you beat match tracks - to get them to play at the same tempo.
There are essentially two parts to matching beats:Matching the tempo of the two tracks you mix, so they play at the exact same speed.
 Much modern software and DJ gear have automatic tempo detection which will show you the BPM of your track automatically.
 Either speed up or slow down the tempo of your track.
Then, on the first beat of the first track, you press and hold the Cue button on the second track, and listen to see if the tempos are in time.
I'm excited to share these DJ mixing techniques for beginners and lessons to help you accelerate your DJ skills!Don't forget to bookmark this page for quick reference later! If you're ready for deeper tips, have a look at our Advanced DJ Mixing Technique Guide!TL;DR - DJ Mixing Techniques For Beginners#Learn the techniques used to make a DJ mixUnderstand the equipment, tools, and controls.
 Learn the Tools of the Trade - DJ Equipment#To become a DJ, one of the first steps is to understand the types of tools available and learn how to use them.
The Core Tools for DJing are:#DecksMixersHeadphonesSpeakersAudio interfaceIt's worth noting that today, there are many different equipment setups you can use.
 DecksDJ decks are pieces of equipment that holds and plays your music.
 MixersMixers are the piece of equipment that really made DJing possible, otherwise, you would just have to listen to one record after another.
These are used to set the volume and EQ balance for music playing from the decks.
Using the volume faders and EQ controls, you use a mixer for smoothly mixing songs, making clean and seamless transitions in your DJ set.
Recommended DJ Equipment For Beginners#As a beginner, you don't need to buy the most expensive professional equipment to get started DJing.
 This is a vital piece of equipment for making DJ sets.
 While DJing originated from hardware and physical equipment, these days computers are powerful enough to offer virtual DJing solutions just using software alone.
 Learn the techniques - How to Use the Gear Correctly#After you've got your hands on the right equipment, it's time to understand the core controls used for mixing music and making DJ sets.
These controls are:Volume controls (gain) - Channel Faders, Cross FadersPitch/Tempo sliderEQCue and playJogging and scratchingEffectsVolume (Gain) - Channel Faders, Cross Faders#Volume, more correctly called gain, is one of the most important controls and also the easiest to understand.
 EQ - Equalization#EQ, short for equalization, is a control that lets you change the tone (more technically, the frequency balance) of each track.
Usually, there is a set of EQ controls for each channel fader on a mixer.
Each EQ is typically split into three bands - high mid and low (or more technically, treble mid, and bass).
 Most DJ controllers and mixers feature this three-band EQ system, although sometimes you will see 4 or 2 bands.
These EQ controls let you either cut or boost the level of each band.
These EQ tools have multiple purposes.
See our guide on EQ Mixing for a deeper dive into this topic.
 Filters#Filters are similar to EQs but work in a more aggressive way.
 These remove frequencies based on the type.
 So the more you turn up the low cut filter, the bass disappears, then the mid disappears, and eventually, it just leaves the very top frequencies in the treble band.
 These are mostly EQs, filters, and effects like reverbs, delays, and loops.
You should equally spend as much time finding music.
What Equipment is Needed for a Beginner DJ?New DJs only need a few bits of equipment - you can get by on a minimal setup.
 So if a track is released at 120 BPM, it will play at 120 BPM.
Say you had a track that was originally 120 BPM.
 If you increase the pitch slider to plus 10%, it will play around 132 bpmHowever, if you put the pitch slider down 10% the track will play at 108 BPM.
To beat-match your music tracks, follow these steps:The first step is detecting the BPM of the two tracks.
 Much modern software and DJ gear have automatic tempo detection which will show you the BPM of your track automatically.
 Alternatively, you can use a BPM counter like this website where you just tap along with the track to count the BPM.
Now you just need to match the two BPMs together.
 This lets you match up the BPMs so that the two tracks are playing at the same speed.
 It can be easier to use this kind of software in the early days just to understand how BPM matching works before you start practicing the manual technique.
DJ Mixing Techniques For Beginners: a Step-by-step Guide | DJ.
StudioStart mixing with our intuitive software!HomeBlogDJ Mixing Techniques For Beginners: a Step-by-step GuideNoah Feasey-KempStart mixing with our intuitive software!DJing and mixing music is one of life's greatest joys - although many people never experience it because they're too intimidated to learn.
I'm excited to share these DJ mixing techniques for beginners and lessons to help you accelerate your DJ skills!Don't forget to bookmark this page for quick reference later! If you're ready for deeper tips, have a look at our Advanced DJ Mixing Technique Guide!TL;DR - DJ Mixing Techniques For Beginners#Learn the techniques used to make a DJ mixUnderstand the equipment, tools, and controls.
Beginner DJs should practice regularly to improve their mixing skills.
 Ultimately, the type of music you want to DJ is up to you - although it helps to try mixing all genres to get a broader range of experience and expose yourself to more techniques.
One of the most important DJ mixing techniques for beginners is to learn all of the tools and how to use them in a DJ set.
Using the volume faders and EQ controls, you use a mixer for smoothly mixing songs, making clean and seamless transitions in your DJ set.
 These are also good for house parties or mixing on the move!You don't even need any hardware and can mix tracks and make DJ sets purely using a DJ app.
All you really need to get started mixing music is:A laptop or computer (Find out how to DJ on a laptop here!)HeadphonesSpeakersSome DJing SoftwareA DJ controller (this is even optional)4.
 The distinction is, that some DJ software is designed to be used for live performances for instance - DJs mixing live in a nightclub or on the radio.
For example, live mixing software is great for real-time, live performances, however, putting together a set (when you don't need to do it live) is much more time-consuming as you have to record it at a 1:1 use of time.
 1 hour of mixing = 1 hour of recording to share.
 Learn the techniques - How to Use the Gear Correctly#After you've got your hands on the right equipment, it's time to understand the core controls used for mixing music and making DJ sets.
 When you're mixing two tracks together you might not want to have both bass lines blasting at the same time.
See our guide on EQ Mixing for a deeper dive into this topic.
These are ideal for transitions and for getting creative with the dance floor whether you're mixing electronic dance music or old school disco classics.
 This is arguably one of the most important DJ Mixing Techniques to learn to enable you to make seamless transitions between tracks.
Have a look at our guide on Beat Matching Techniques for more info!Cueing#The cue button is an essential component of mixing and the whole cue system is the mechanism that enables DJs to prepare the next track for a seamless transition.
Harmonic Mixing#Harmonic mixing is a more advanced DJ technique that gives you consistent and flowing sets by utilizing music theory surrounding musical keys.
Harmonic mixing is a complex topic, which is beyond the scope of this article.
 So I'd recommend you check out our full guides on related topics:How To DJ In KeyHow to use Camelot keysWhat Is Harmonic Mixing?How To Find The Key Of A SongPractice, Practice, Practice#The best way for aspiring DJs to improve their DJing skills is to practice as much as possible.
When you're mixing, you're in the moment - so you might not hear your mix properly.
 With these DJ mixing techniques for beginners, you'll have a head start to becoming a pro DJ.
Studio since the start of the project, and am always happy to answer questions and help fellow DJs out!

 LinkedInFAQs about DJ Mixing For BeginnersIs it Easy to Start DJ Mixing?It is pretty easy to start DJ mixing.
What Should a Beginner DJ Do?A beginner DJ should practice mixing music as much as possible.
 Recording mixing and listening back to them is important for new DJs to get an accurate perspective of how they sound.
A laptop/computerHeadphones and speakersDJ SoftwareA DJ controllerWith this small amount of gear, you can practice everything you need to master your DJ skills!Related PostsHip Hop DJ Mixing Techniques: 15 Key SkillsDJ Mixing TechniquesThe Best Free DJ Software - Download Here DJ Mixing Software5 DJ Crossfade Techniques - Mix Like A ProDJ Mixing TechniquesHow Does DJ Software Work? The Basics ExplainedDJ Mixing SoftwareIs it Hard to Learn DJing? Is DJ Mixing Hard?How To Make A DJ MixHow To DJ Without A Controller - The Best and Worst MethodsHow To Make A DJ MixExcited to start mixing?FooterThe DJ Mix.
