Nøkkelord brukt for utvalg: db, mixing, volume, levels

By carefully adjusting the gain levels at each stage of the signal chain, from the input source to the output speakers, DJs can prevent distortion, ensure consistency in volume levels across tracks, and maximise the signal-to-noise ratio.
Gain structure is often overlooked by newer DJs, but it's vital for high-quality mixing.
Gain structure refers to how the volume levels are set throughout the mixer, from the channel gain, to the volume fades, and master output.
DJ.Studio helps you to balance the gain of your mixes in a new way, with per-track volume and compression controls
Gain staging in DJing (and broader audio scenarios) refers to the management of signal levels at various points in the audio chain to ensure optimal sound quality and prevent distortion.
This involves adjusting the gain or volume settings at each stage of the signal flow, from the input sources like turntables or CDJs, through the mixer, effects units, and finally to the output speakers.
You can't correct an issue in an early stage with control down the line. So, if you have distortion coming from an early input stage, you can't fix it by turning down the volume on a later device. This is why you need to pay close attention to the gain at every device and opportunity, and make sure that it's correct from the start of the path.
Typically, the source of an audio signal in a DJ setup is a source device like a CDJ or vinyl turntable. (Sometimes you'll use an extra sampler or a controller). This signal is then sent into a DJ mixer, which has input gain controls, EQs, channel faders, and effects. All of these need to be set at the correct level. The audio is then sent out of the mixer via the master output fader/control, which is then connected to a set of speakers (or an amp) which usually has its own volume control.
Audio Sources (CDJs, turntables, software, extra devices). Each source has a different output level, and volume can vary from track to track based on the final settings created by the mastering engineer.
Channel Fader - These are the vertical sliders which are used to set the relative volume of one track against the other, independently.
Crossfader - This mixing stage sets the levels of the two channels simultaneously. As you turn one up, the other is reduced.
Master output/Master fader - The mixer has a master volume control which sets the final output level of the devices. This affects all channels equally and simultaneously.
Amplification input/speaker controls - Depending on what sound system you're using, there will be some level of volume control. This might be volume knobs on the amplifier or maybe built directly into the speakers.
Maintaining proper gain levels throughout the signal chain is essential for several reasons.
Volume Consistency - It helps to maintain consistent gain levels and allows for smoother transitions between tracks, enhancing the overall flow and coherence of the mix.
These are some of the main reasons why DJs need to give attention to gain staging. This principle applies to all various genres out there, so regardless of what music you are mixing, make sure your volume is in the sweet spot throughout the signal path.
In essence, it's about finding the right volume balance. You want to maximise the volume, without distorting the signal. Next, I'll explain some of the fundamental concepts in more detail.
This is the first gain stage, which is used to amplify the signal from the source device like a CD player. This stage is mainly used to balance the volume from different sources and tracks, as there can be a variance. This is typically a small knob at the top of the audio channel on a mixer.
This is the channel fader, which is used more artistically than technically. These long faders let you play with the volume of a channel, and sit in between the input gain and master output.
Gain essentially increases the energy of the volume signal. Signals created by source devices like CDJs and turntables are tiny - when ultimately you need a large amount of energy to move the cones of the master speakers. Gain and amplifiers are responsible for subsequently boosting these small signals to eventually have enough energy to create vibrations in the air through speakers.
(These numbers are just for an example demonstration, they're not accurate). In reality, the point at which most mixers clip is at 0dB, and you want to aim to have your signals below this level. When setting gain levels for DJ mixes, aiming for an optimal level of around -6 dB to -3 dB is generally recommended. This level provides sufficient headroom for the audio signal, allowing for dynamic peaks without risking distortion or clipping. You should try not to exceed a true peak of -1 dB unless you want distortion.
Prepare and Setup - Before you start mixing, try to prepare the controls and gain settings on your mixer and gear. (This can be a bit tricky if you're taking over after another DJ's slot. Set the trim controls for each channel to +/- 0dB so they're not boosting or lowering the signal. Set the master to +/- 0dB, and put the channel faders at the top of their slider. Put the crossfader into the middle. Set the speakers/amp to +/- 0dB. You now have all your gear set to a neutral position, leaving you in good preparation for gain staging. (Some mixers and controllers don't have numerical indicators, in which case you should just set the knob to the middle position).
Play Track 1 and Set Gain - Play the first track you are going to mix, and have a look at the meters. Adjust the input trim until the indicators show that the track is peaking at around -6 to -3 dB on the channel level indicators. The master output meter should show a similar level, but adjust the master gain if not. You should now be at a good volume level, but adjust the master fader if you need extra volume. (Or ask the front-of-house to turn up if you're running out of headroom).
Cue Track 2, and Set Gain - When Track 1 is live, it's time to prepare Track 2. Play it in through the headphone cue, and make sure that the channel fader is down so it's not coming out the front of house speakers. Now, adjust the headphone cue so it's playing a 50/50 mix of track 1 and 2. Adjust channel 2's input gain until the volume is around a similar level to track 1 - then make your transition!
Constant Monitoring and Adjustment - Tracks often change in volume throughout their progression, so you need to constantly listen out for any increase or drops in level, and keep an eye on the meters. Try to keep a relatively consistent volume throughout your mix - although leave some room to bring the volume up or down for emotional effect.
DJ.Studio is a unique new piece of DJ software with a revolutionary approach to DJ mixing. Rather than using a controller or decks, DJs can create full, expressive mixes from their laptop alone, with a DAW-style mix creation and editing interface.
Gain Automation - You can adjust the volume faders for each track to balance the level. This can be recorded in real-time using your mouse, or use the manual automation to draw in the line on the editing timeline. Use this to create a consistent volume throughout your mix, as well as progressively adding some emotion and intensity to your mix.
As you can see, DJ.Studio offers a different workflow to the standard DJing experience. Being on an editing timeline, it gives you a quicker and easier overview of the gain levels throughout your mix, helping you to create a more consistent listening experience.
When gain staging your DJ mixes, you need to leave yourself enough headroom to work without throughout your signal path. For the best gain structure, I recommend setting your input trims so that your tracks are peaking at around -6 to - dB. Any higher than this and you risk distorting the master, especially if you do a transition where both tracks are playing at full force.
From here, you can push the master volume up a little bit, but ultimately you don't really want your master output to be peaking at anything higher than -1 dB to avoid distortion.
As a DJ, gain staging isn't strictly required, but it is definitely worth doing. Correct gain structure helps your mix to sound the best it can, with maximized volume, minimized noise, consistent levels, and no unwanted distortion. It's not that hard to do either, so you should learn how in this guide.
The terms 'volume' and 'gain' are often used interchangeably, although they do have different technical meanings. When I was studying at audio engineering school, my stuffy old lecturers would always complain when anyone used the term 'volume' saying something like "volume is actually the measurement of a 3D area, like a jug of water". Although realistically, everyone knows what you're talking about when you say volume.
Typically, the channel faders are labelled as volume, and input trims are labelled as gain. The gain is used to set the pre-mixer level, and the fader is used to artistically perform with control over the volume. (Sorry professor.)
